.TH SHEEPDOG 8 2012-08-05
.SH NAME
collie \- Command line utility for the sheep daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "collie <command> <subcommand> [options]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B collie
- Sheepdog is a distributed storage system for KVM/QEMU. It provides
highly available block level storage volumes to virtual machines.
Sheepdog supports advanced volume management features such as snapshot,
cloning, and thin provisioning. The architecture of Sheepdog is fully
symmetric; there is no central node such as a meta-data server.

The server daemon is called sheep(8).  A command line utility is available
via collie(8).  KVM/QEMU virtual machines use the sheep daemon via a block
driver available in qemu(1).

For more information, run 'collie <command> <subcommand> --help'.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a "\fR, \fP" \--address
This option specifies the daemon address (default: localhost).
.TP
.BI \-p "\fR, \fP" \--port
This option specifies the daemon port.
.TP
.BI \-i "\fR, \fP" \--index
This option specifies the index of data objects.
.TP
.BI \-s "\fR, \fP" \--snapshot
This option specifies a snapshot id or tag name.
.TP
.BI \-P "\fR, \fP" \--prealloc
This option preallocates all the data objects.
.TP
.BI \-r "\fR, \fP" \--raw
This option set raw output mode: omit headers, separate fields with single spaces and print all sizes in decimal bytes.
.TP
.BI \-d "\fR, \fP" \--delete
This option deletes a key.
.TP
.BI \-x "\fR, \fP" \--exclusive
This option enables exclusive write mode.
.TP
.BI \-b "\fR, \fP" \--store
This option specifies the backend store.
.TP
.BI \-c "\fR, \fP" \--copies
This option specifies the level of data redundancy (i.e. number of copies to maintain of each object).
.TP
.BI \-m "\fR, \fP" \--mode\ [safe|quorum|unsafe]
This option controls the behavior when there are too few nodes for the configured redundancy. Mode 'safe' will halt cluster IO when (nr_nodes < nr_copies). Mode 'quorum' will halt cluster IO when (nr_nodes < nr_copies/2 + 1). Mode 'unsafe' will never halt the cluster and therefore data loss may result.
.TP
.BI \-f "\fR, \fP" \--force
Do not prompt for confirmation.
.TP
.BI \-R "\fR, \fP" \--restore
This option restores the cluster.
.TP
.BI \-h "\fR, \fP" \--help
Display help and exit.
.SH COMMAND & SUBCOMMAND
.TP
.BI "vdi create [-P|--prealloc] [-a|--address address] [-p|--port port] [-h|--help] <vdiname> <size>"
This command creates an image.
.TP
.BI "vdi snapshot [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname>"
This command creates a snapshot.
.TP
.BI "vdi check [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname>"
This command checks and repairs an image's consistency.
.TP
.BI "vdi clone [-s snapshot] [-P] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <src vdi> <dst vdi>"
This command clones an image.
.TP
.BI "vdi delete [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname>"
This command deletes an image.
.TP
.BI "vdi rollback [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname>"
This command rollbacks the current vdi to the requested snapshot.
.TP
.BI "vdi list [-a address] [-p port] [-r] [-h] [vdiname]"
This command lists images.
.TP
.BI "vdi track [-i index] [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname>"
This command shows the object epoch trace in the image.
.TP
.BI "vdi tree [-a address] [-p port] [-h]"
This command shows images in tree view format.
.TP
.BI "vdi graph [-a address] [-p port] [-h]"
This command shows images in Graphviz dot format.
.TP
.BI "vdi object [-i index] [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname>"
This command shows object information in the image.
.TP
.BI "vdi setattr [-d] [-x] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname> <key> [value]"
This command sets a VDI attribute.
.TP
.BI "vdi getattr [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname> <key>"
This command gets a VDI attribute.
.TP
.BI "vdi resize [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname> <new size>"
This command resizes an image.
.TP
.BI "vdi read [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname> [<offset> [<len>]]"
This command reads data from an image.
.TP
.BI "vdi write [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname> [<offset> [<len>]]"
This command writes data to an image.
.TP
.BI "vdi backup [-s snapshot] [-F from] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname> <backup>"
This command creates an incremental backup between two snapshots.
.TP
.BI "vdi restore [-s snapshot] [-a address] [-p port] [-h] <vdiname> <backup>"
This command restores snapshot images from a backup.
.TP
.BI "node kill [-a address] [-p port] [-r] [-h] <node id>"
This command kills the specified node.
.TP
.BI "node list [-a address] [-p port] [-r] [-h]"
This command lists nodes.
.TP
.BI "node info [-a address] [-p port] [-r] [-h]"
This command shows information about each node.
.TP
.BI "node recovery [-a address] [-p port] [-r] [-h]"
This command shows nodes currently in recovery.
.TP
.BI "cluster info [-a address] [-p port] [-r] [-h]"
This command shows cluster information.
.TP
.BI "cluster format [-b store] [-c copies] [-m mode] [-a address] [-p port] [-h]"
This command creates a Sheepdog store.
.TP
.BI "cluster shutdown [-a address] [-p port] [-h]"
This command stops Sheepdog.
.TP
.BI "cluster recover info [-a address] [-f] [-p port] [-h]"
Show the status of recovery to user.
.TP
.BI "cluster recover force [-a address] [-f] [-p port] [-h]"
Force recover cluster immediately.
.TP
.BI "cluster recover enable [-a address] [-f] [-p port] [-h]"
Enable automatic recovery and run once recover if necessary.
.TP
.BI "cluster recover disable [-a address] [-f] [-p port] [-h]"
Disable automatic recovery.

.SH DEPENDENCIES
\fBSheepdog\fP requires QEMU 0.13.z or later and Corosync 1.y.z or 2.y.z.

.SH FILES
none

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sheep(8),
.BR qemu(1),
.BR corosync_overview(8)

.SH AUTHORS
This software is developed by the Sheepdog community which may be reached
via mailing list at <sheepdog@lists.wpkg.org>.
.PP
