.TH SHEEPDOG 2010-08-24
.SH NAME
sheep \- Distributed Block Storage System for KVM
.SH SNYNOPSIS
.B "sheep [options] [PATH]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sheep
Sheepdog is a distributed storage system for KVM/QEMU. It provides
highly available block level storage volumes to virtual machines.
Sheepdog supports advanced volume management features such as snapshot,
cloning, and thin provisioning. The architecture of Sheepdog is fully
symmetric; there is no central node such as a meta-data server.

The server daemon is called sheep(8).  A command line utility is available
via collie(8).  KVM/QEMU virtual machines use the sheep daemon via a block
driver available in qemu(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-p "\fR, \fP" \--port " port"
This option specifies the IP port over which \fBsheep\fP looks for other
sheepdog cluster nodes.
.TP
.BI \-f "\fR, \fP" \--foreground
This option forces the sheepdog daemon to run in the foreground.
.TP
.BI \-l "\fR, \fP" \--loglevel " loglevel"
This option specifies the message level printed.
.TP
.BI \-d "\fR, \fP" \--debug
This option displays debug messages.
.TP
.BI \-h "\fR, \fP" \--help
Display help and exit.
.SH PATH
Proper LSB systems will store sheepdog files in /var/lib/sheepdog.  The init
script uses this directory by default.  The directory must be on a filesystem
with xattr support.  In the case of ext3, user_xattr should be added to the
mount options.

mount \-o remount,user_xattr /var/lib/shepdog

.SH DEPENDENCIES
\fBsheepdog\fP requires QEMU 0.13.z or later and Corosync 1.y.z.

.SH FILES
.B /var/lib/sheepdog - Directory containing block storage information

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR collie(8),qemu(1),corosync_overview(8)

.SH AUTHORS
This software is developed by the sheepdog community which may be reached
via mailing list at <sheepdog@lists.wpkg.org>.
.PP
